=head1 NAME

INSTALL - [documentation] How to install WordNet::Similarity

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 perl Makefile.PL

 make

 make test

 make install

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Prerequisites

You need to have WordNet (version 3.0) installed, L<WordNet::QueryData>
(version 1.40 or later), and L<Text::Similarity> (version 0.04 or later)
installed.

 [NOTE: However, if you're using WordNet 3.0, you must use
 WordNet::QueryData v1.46 or above. WordNet::QueryData v1.40 through
 v1.45 can only be used with WordNet 2.1.]

WordNet is available at L<http://wordnet.princeton.edu>, 
L<WordNet::QueryData>
is available from L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/WordNet-QueryData>, and
L<Text::Similarity> is available from 
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Text-Similarity>.

You should set the WNHOME environment variable to the location where you
have WordNet installed; see the L<WordNet::QueryData> documentation for 
more information.

=head2 Installing

The usual way to install the package is to run the following commands:

 perl Makefile.PL

 make

 make test

 make install

If you can't set the WNHOME environment variable, you can use the WNHOME
option when running S<perl Makefile.PL>.  For example,

 perl Makefile.PL WNHOME=/usr/local/WordNet-3.0

You will often need root access/superuser priviledges to run S<make install>.
The module can also be installed locally.  To do a local install, you need
to specify a PREFIX option when you run 'perl Makefile.PL'.  For example,

 perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/home/sid

or

 perl Makefile.PL LIB=/home/sid/lib PREFIX=/home/sid

will install Similarity into /home/sid.  The first method above will
install the modules in /home/sid/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.8.3 (assuming
you are using version 5.8.3 of Perl; otherwise, the directory will
be slightly different).  The second method will install the modules
in /home/sid/lib.  In either case the executable scripts will be
installed in /home/sid/bin and the man pages will be installed in
home/sid/share.

Warning: do not put a dash or hyphen in front of PREFIX, LIB or WNHOME.

In your perl programs that you may write using the modules, you may need
to add a line like so

 use lib '/home/sid/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.8.3';

if you used the first method or

 use lib '/home/sid/lib';

if you used the second method.  By doing this, the installed
modules are found by your program.  To run the similarity.pl program,
you would need to do

 perl -I/home/sid/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.8.3 similarity.pl

or 

 perl -I/home/sid/lib

Of course, you could also add the 'use lib' line to the top of the program
yourself, but you might not want to do that.  You will need to replace
5.8.3 with whatever version of Perl you are using.  The preceeding
instructions should be sufficient for standard and slightly non-standard
installations. However, if you need to modify other makefile options you
should look at the ExtUtils::MakeMaker documentation. Modifying other
makefile options is not recommended unless you really, absolutely, and
completely know what you're doing!

NOTE: The information-content based measures (res, lin, jcn) are invoked
using the default information content file generated during installation of
the modules. If, however, the version of WordNet being used on your system
has changed since that time, or for some reason the modules are unable to
locate the default information content files, then alternate information
content files can be specified only by using a configuration file
corresponding to each of the modules. Format and creation of configuration
files has been discussed in the documentation. Utilities to generate
information content files have been provided in the package.

NOTE: If one (or more) of the tests run by 'make test' fails, you will see
a summary of the tests that failed, followed by a message of the form
"make: *** [test_dynamic] Error Y"  where Y is a number between 1 and
255 (inclusive).  If the number is less than 255, then it indicates how
many test failed (if more than 254 tests failed, then 254 will still be
shown).  If one or more tests died, then 255 will be shown.  For more
details, see:

http://search.cpan.org/dist/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Builder.pm#EXIT_CODES

=head2 System Requirements

=over

=item 1.

Perl version 5.6 or later.  This package has been written in Perl, which is
freely available from www.perl.org. This package assumes that perl is
installed in the directory /usr/bin.  If this is where perl is on
your computer, then the support programs can be run directly at the
command line as 'similarity.pl ...' or 'semCorFreq.pl...',
etc. However, if Perl is not installed at this location,
you would need to explicitly invoke them as 'perl similarity.pl ... ' or
'perl freqCount.pl...', etc.

=item 2.

WordNet: All the measures are based on WordNet. WordNet must be
installed on your system. WordNet is freely downloadable from
L<http://wordnet.princeton.edu>. WordNet version 3.0 was used during
the development and testing of the package. Unfortunately, due to major
changes in WordNet (and L<WordNet::QueryData>) from version 2.0 to 2.1, 
this version of L<WordNet::Similarity> supports only WordNet 2.1 (or 
later).
The L<WordNet::QueryData> Perl module is used to access WordNet. This 
module
requires that an environment variable 'WNHOME', containing the path to the
WordNet files, be set up. For further details, please see the
L<WordNet::QueryData> documentation.

=item 3.

L<WordNet::QueryData>: This is the Perl interface to WordNet written by
Jason Rennie. QueryData should be accessible on the @INC path of Perl. (Can
be freely downloaded from 
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/WordNet-QueryData>).
QueryData 1.46 was used during the development. Also we observed that that
due to some major changes in QueryData from its previous versions, this
software does not work with the earlier versions of QueryData. If you have
an earlier version of QueryData (1.38 or earlier) you may need to upgrade
QueryData.

=item 4.

L<Text::Similarity>: This module is used by the 
L<WordNet::Similarity::lesk>
measure for finding runs of word overlaps in glosses.  The 
L<Text::Similarity>
module can be downloaded from 
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Text-Similarity>.

Version 0.04 or better is required in order to be compatible with 
Perl version 5.6 and better.

=back

=head2 Optional Tests

Running 'make install' after make will run a short series of tests.  These
tests should not take more than a few minutes to run.  There is another
series of more rigorous tests that may also be run; however, these tests
can take quite some time to run (over an hour on some machines).  To 
run these tests, run 'make test_all'.

=head2 Example

The following procedure will work on most Linux systems.

 cd /tmp
 wget http://wordnet.princeton.edu/3.0/WordNet-3.0.tar.gz
 wget http://search.cpan.org/CPAN/authors/id/J/JR/JRENNIE/WordNet-QueryData-1.46.tar.gz
 wget http://search.cpan.org/CPAN/authors/id/J/JA/JASONM/Text-Similarity-0.02.tar.gz
 wget http://search.cpan.org/CPAN/authors/id/T/TP/TPEDERSE/WordNet-Similarity-2.01.tar.gz

Then unpack each one:

 tar -zxvf WordNet-3.0.tar.gz
 tar -zxvf WordNet-QueryData-1.46.tar.gz
 tar -zxvf Text-Similarity-0.02.tar.gz
 tar -zxvf WordNet-Similarity-2.01.tar.gz

Install WordNet:

 cd /tmp/WordNet-3.0
 ./configure
 make
 su
 make install
 exit

Installing QueryData and Similarity:

 cd /tmp/WordNet-QueryData-1.46
 perl Makefile.PL
 make
 make test
 su
 make install
 exit

 cd /tmp/Text-Similarity-0.02
 perl Makefile.PL
 make
 make test
 su
 make install
 exit

 cd /tmp/WordNet-Similarity-2.01
 perl Makefile.PL
 make
 make test
 su
 make install
 exit

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<intro.pod>

Mailing list:
 L<http://groups.yahoo.com/group/wn-similarity>

Project Home page:
 L<http://wn-similarity.sourceforge.net>

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

 Siddharth Patwardhan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
 sidd at cs.utah.edu

 Satanjeev Banerjee, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
 banerjee+ at cs.cmu.edu

 Jason Michelizzi

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2005-2008, Ted Pedersen, Siddharth Patwardhan, Satanjeev Banerjee, 
and Jason Michelizzi

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut
