=head1 NAME 

TODO - Todo list for WordNet::Similarity

=head1 DESCRIPTION

As these items are completed, move them down into Recently Completed  
Items,  make sure to date and initial. When we have  a version release,  
all of the recently completed items  should be moved into changelog.pod. 

=head1 TODO LIST FOR FUTURE VERSIONS

=over

=item * 

Update hso to support new derivational relations introduced in 
WordNet 2.0

=item *

Update hso to support the use of a hypothetical root node. Currently (as 
of version 0.06 and 0.07) its paths (for hypernyms) are limited to a 
particular taxonomy. This might be problematic when it comes to nouns, 
which are split into 9(?) separate taxonomies within WordNet. And of
course verbs are split into hundreds of taxonomies. Right now when hso
is on a hypernym path it isn't able to cross "up and over". Seems like it 
should be able to do so. 

Note that as of WordNet 3.0 the nouns have been joined into a single 
hierarchy, so perhaps hso will behave differently there. 

=item * 

Re-write hso to make it faster and more generic. check to see if hso 
uses hypo root node, and consider adding ability to turn on/off. 

Note that as of WordNet 3.0 the hypo root node is only relevant for 
verbs, since nouns have been joined into a single large hierarchy. 

=item *

Re-write *Freq.pl programs to reduce redundancy and make faster. At 
present there are bugs in all of these programs. Create test cases that 
are manually verified and included in testing directory. 

=item * 

Support --trace option on info content programs to allow for wps format 
to be displayed in addition to (or instead of?) offset. 

=item * 

Run profiles of rawtextFreq.pl and BNCFreq.pl to determine where time is 
being spent. Brown, SemCor and Treebank all seem to run reasonably 
quickly (20 minutes, 5 minutes, and 40 minutes, respectively). Run 1 
million words worth of BNC in order to compare with Brown and Treebank.

=item * 

rawtextFreq.pl runs really slowly. It may have to do with the fact that 
raw text has no markup in the text to identify sentence boundaries or 
otherwise guide the programs. This might particularly slow down compound 
identification. 

=item * 

Makefile.PL and semCorFreq.pl seem to be somewhat alike. Can Makefile.PL
simply call /utils/SemCorFreq.pl, or can this duplication be avoided in
some other way?

=item *

Update documentation to clarify that stoplists must also be all lowercase. 
Consider adjusting stoplists to use regular expressions. 

=item * 

Speed up lesk, and make it more generic. string matching is the  big 
offender with respect to speed, and wordnet specific  stuff is the   
problem with respect to generality. 

=item * 

Update lesk/vector to support new derivational relations introduced in 
WordNet 2.0

=item *

Use info content programs to create new cntlist files for WordNet? 

=back

=head1 WISH LIST FOR FUTURE RELEASES, DO WHEN POSSIBLE

=over 

=item *

Edge/path and jcn are both distance measures. To convert them to 
similarity measures, we currently use 1/distance. This shifts the scale of 
the measures and changes the relative distance between pairs. Alternatives
are to use -dist or maxdist-dist. Computation of maxdist for path is much 
like computation for lch (with and without hypo root node). for jcn it 
poses a new issue, in that we would need to find the pair of concepts that 
had the greatest individual information content, and are subsumed by a 
root node (either hypo or "real").

=item * 

Check if warnings are issued when there are version clashes between info  
content files and wordnet version. 

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

 Siddharth Patwardhan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
 sidd at cs.utah.edu

 Satanjeev Banerjee, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
 banerjee+ at cs.cmu.edu

 Jason Michelizzi

Last modified: $Id: todo.pod,v 1.83 2008/04/12 17:41:52 tpederse Exp $

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<changelog.pod>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2005-2008, Ted Pedersen, Siddharth Patwardhan, Satanjeev 
Banerjee, and Jason Michelizzi. 

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this  document  
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no  
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on the web   
at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in this    
distribution as FDL.txt. 

=cut

